
  Kizza Besigye addressed tens of thousands at a rally 
Former Ugandan presidential candidate Kizza Besigye has returned home from four years exile in South Africa. 
Thousands thronged the streets, waving flags and blowing whistles in support. 
Once President Yoweri Museveni's doctor, he became his political opponent and fled after the 2001 polls saying his life was in danger. 
He is expected to run for the presidency again next year. However, he could face arrest for what the government alleges are links to rebels. 
Passionate 
The BBC's Will Ross at Entebbe Airport when Dr Besigye landed, said he was in a defiant mood. 
He told reporters that the time was right to return and take on what he termed "the dictatorship". 
"Many of our supporters have been continuously arrested and detained in various prisons in Uganda. Some have been in prison for more than three years without being tried. Political intimidation and prosecution is rife throughout the country," he said. 
He added that he was going to register his presidential candidacy straight away for the opposition Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) party ahead of Friday's deadline. 
The government has often linked Dr Besigye's name to the People's Redemption Army rebel group, which the government says has had a presence in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. 
Dr Besigye has denied any link with the group, but in past interviews has threatened to go to the bush to overthrow the government. 
Asked at the airport if he had renounced rebellion, he replied that had never been engaged in armed rebellion. 
But, he said, in his interpretation of the constitution it was the right of every Ugandan to carry out rebellion - including armed rebellion - to put back in place the right constitution. 
'Not above the law' 
Although Dr Besigye lost the 2001 election, his popularity caused serious concern for President Museveni's team, our correspondent says. 
And in a letter to cabinet colleagues on 19 October, President Museveni said Dr Besigye could face criminal charges. 
    [Besigye] may have long-standing criminal charges that would be brought against him President Museveni 
In the letter, leaked by cabinet minister Moses Ali, the president says he is not opposed to Dr Besigye returning to Uganda. 
But it continues: "However, I am reliably informed that he may have long-standing criminal charges that would be brought against him. The cabinet needs to be aware of that." 
The FDC sees the president's letter as a direct threat. 
The FDC's Mugisha Muntu says it is not in line with the president's call for reconciliation, which he made last week when the body of former President Milton Obote was returned to Uganda for burial. 
"If he carries out the threat a week after talking about reconciliation it would show he doesn't have his heart in it," Mr Muntu said. 
'Unpredictable' 
With the air full of sentiments of reconciliation, Internal Affairs Minster Ruhakana Rugunda encouraged Dr Besigye to return home last week. 
"The position of the government is concerned with everybody [Besigye] should come, why should he be in exile?" he said. 
In a letter to the FDC this week, he says, "Dr Besigye like any other Ugandan is entitled to enjoy [a free and secure] environment in accordance with the law." 
In other words, when it comes to the law, Dr Besigye is no different from any other Ugandan, our correspondent says. 
And the FDC remain unsure about whether Dr Besigye will face arrest. 
"We're dealing with an unpredictable government and an unpredictable leader. We don't know what's going to happen," says Mr Muntu.
