
Iranian President Mahmud Ahmedinejad has defended his country's decision to resume uranium processing in a speech at the UN, saying Iran has an "inalienable right" to produce nuclear energy. 
This position drew sharp criticism from Western governments which are trying to persuade Iran to give up its enrichment capability. 
Iran said in August it had resumed processing at its plant in Isfahan, an activity that had been suspended since November 2004 while talks were held with three European countries about its long-term nuclear plans. 
The BBC News website investigates what is behind the row. 
What is Iran alleged to have done wrong? 
The West could call for sanctions on the grounds that Iran hid its uranium enrichment programme for 18 years, without telling the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). 
Iran's secrecy breached the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). 
What is the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty? 
The NPT is a 1968 agreement under which those countries with nuclear weapons at the time (the US, Russia, China, Britain and France) were allowed to keep them but agreed not to give them or the technology to anyone else. 
  Iran says its nuclear regime is peaceful 
However, under the NPT other countries are allowed to develop nuclear power for peaceful purposes - but only under the inspection of the IAEA. If they make the fuel themselves it has to be under strict inspection. 
The nuclear powers also promised to work towards nuclear disarmament, but this has not really happened. 
And several nuclear-weapons capable states - Israel, India and Pakistan - have not signed up to the treaty so they can develop weapons anyway. North Korea has withdrawn from the NPT and says it now has nuclear weapons.
Why is the West so worried about Iran's nuclear programme? 
Western powers fear that Iran secretly wants to develop the ability to make a nuclear bomb, even if it has not decided to build one right now. It would need a nuclear programme to do this.
The United States and some Western countries say that Iran cannot be trusted. Allowing Iran to go ahead and enrich uranium would also be a precedent for others, they say. 
They are also concerned that Iran's nuclear ambitions could lead to regional instability. 
What are the likely consequences of Iran's resumption of uranium processing? 
The three European states - the UK, Germany and France - that have been holding talks with Iran on its nuclear programme and the United States are likely to request the IAEA to report Iran to the UN Security Council. 
The IAEA could then call on the Security Council to tell Iran to stop enriching or face sanctions. 
Whether the Council would agree is not known. China and Russia, with veto power on the council, have interests in Iran. China buys Iranian oil and Russia is helping Iran complete a nuclear power station for which it will supply fuel. 
There are fears of a broader, possibly military, crisis. The US has said publicly that it will not permit Iran to develop nuclear weapons. President Bush has said that he wants diplomacy to solve this but that nothing is ruled out. 
There have been press reports that Israel, which bombed an Iraqi reactor in 1981, has begun the planning for a possible raid. Like the US, Israel says that diplomacy is the priority. 
Why did the talks between the European states and Iran fail? 
Iran rejected European proposals for resolving concerns over its nuclear programme. 
The package included a proposal to let Iran develop a civilian nuclear programme if it halts uranium enrichment activities. 
The talks were aimed at agreeing a way of ensuring that Iran's nuclear programme is entirely peaceful. What are called "objective guarantees" were being examined to put this into effect. 
The talks were being held because Iran hid its effort to develop uranium enrichment technology without telling the IAEA. When Iran was threatened with being reported to the Security Council, it agreed in November 2004 to suspend enrichment and open talks with the European states about a long-term solution. 
This process appears to have been exhausted, though Iran says it wants to continue talks even though it has resumed uranium enrichment. 
Why is the issue of enrichment so important? 
Under the NPT, a country is allowed, under inspection by the IAEA, to enrich uranium to a level needed to make fuel for nuclear power. Most however do not. They get fuel from a few supplier countries under strict regulations. 
The key problem is that the same technology can be used to enrich uranium further in order to make nuclear weapons. There are fears that Iran might do this, either in secret or by developing the technology under inspection and then withdrawing from the treaty to make a bomb openly. 
Why does Iran want to enrich uranium itself? 
Enriched uranium (basically the higher-grade material extracted from the original ore) provides fuel for a nuclear power station. Iran says it needs to be able to develop this process itself because it cannot trust outside suppliers. It says they might be subject to American influence. 
If it is legal to enrich uranium for fuel, why should Iran not do so? 
Iran says that it should be allowed to, under inspection. 
Why does Iran want a nuclear power programme? 
Despite its huge oil and gas reserves, it says it wants diversity of energy supply and it has a right to develop nuclear power. It points out that its original nuclear programme was started under the Shah. 
Why is Iran building a heavy-water nuclear reactor? 
There is concern in the West about this. A heavy-water reactor could provide plutonium, an alternative source of fuel to highly-enriched uranium for a nuclear explosion. France, Germany and the UK have offered help to build a different kind of reactor. Iran has said that the heavy-water reactor is simply part of its overall nuclear power programme. 
Does Iran intend to build nuclear weapons? 
Iran says its policy is yes to enrichment but no to nuclear weapons. The sceptics argue that Iran has no need to make its own nuclear fuel as this can be provided by others, so that it must be intending one day to make a bomb. 
One other possibility is that Iran wants to develop the capability but has left a decision on whether actually to build a nuclear weapon for the future. 
How long would it take Iran to make the bomb? 
Several years, according to the experts. First, Iran would have to master the enrichment process. This involves engineering thousands of centrifuges which spin a gas made from uranium ore, a difficult operation. Then it has to learn how to trigger a nuclear explosion and make a device small enough to be carried by an aircraft or missile. 
However, Israel is worried that Iran could learn the enrichment technology sufficiently within a year or so and that achievement, Israel believes, would be the point of no return. 
