
  Saad Hariri was speaking after talks with French President Jacques Chirac 
The son of slain former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri has said he opposes possible sanctions against Syria in connection with the killing. 
Saad Hariri's comments come as the UN Security Council is considering a plan, drafted by France, the US and the UK, to threaten Damascus with sanctions. 
Mr Hariri also said he favoured setting up an international tribunal to try his father's killers once they are found. 
Rafik Hariri was killed on 14 February in a bomb blast in Beirut. 
Syria has rejected a recent UN report that accuses it of plotting Hariri's death and blocking an investigation into it. 
'Heinous crime' 
"I am not in favour of sanctions against Syria," Saad Hariri said. 
    KEY UN FINDINGS Assassins had considerable resources and capabilities Evidence suggests both Syria and Lebanon were involved Crime was prepared over several months Hariri's movements and itineraries were monitored Highly unlikely Syrian or Lebanese intelligence were not aware of assassination plot 
---*-*-*---
UN report in full (488K) 
Most computers will open PDF documents automatically, but you may need to download Adobe Acrobat Reader. Download the reader here 
"We are friends of the people of Syria. Lebanon and Syria have had a very long historic friendship and we'd like to keep it this way," the Lebanese lawmaker said. 
He added that efforts to bring the perpetrators to justice were "heading in the right direction", describing the assassination as a "heinous crime". 
"I believe an international tribunal is important," he said. 
Mr Hariri was speaking after talks with French President Jacques Chirac in Paris. 
For his part, Mr Chirac praised the "professionalism and impartiality" of the UN investigation, led by German prosecutor Detlev Mehlis. 
Mr Chirac also expressed hopes that justice would be done. 
Draft resolution 
The draft UN resolution proposed by the three countries urges Syria to arrest any of its nationals seen by UN investigators as suspects in the Hariri assassination. 
The document - submitted on Tuesday - says that the UN Security Council intends to consider "further measures", including possible sanctions, if Syria does not fully co-operate with the inquiry. 
    I don't believe that there was enough information to support any of the implications made Rasha, Egyptian/Syrian in USA Hariri report: Your views 
The draft would also impose an asset freeze and travel ban on anyone considered a suspect in the UN inquiry. 
It says that Mr Mehlis and his team should be allowed to "interview Syrian officials or other individuals" described as "relevant to the inquiry". 
Russia - one of the five veto-wielding Security Council members - has said it will block any UN effort to impose sanctions on Damascus. 
The Arab League has said that there was "no logic or legitimacy" for imposing sanctions based on accusations of the incomplete UN investigation.
