
  
The BBC News desktop alert and breaking news e-mail services let you find out about all the latest news as it happens. 
Desktop alerts 
To install, simply click on the download button appropriate to where you live. From the options select "save" and follow the instructions. 
 If you are in the UK   
 If you are outside the UK   
Please note: This service is only available for PCs using Windows 
If you are in the UK, you can also choose to be reminded about the best of our current affairs programming on BBC TV and Radio. 
These alerts will tell you about programmes coming up, and remind you when they are about to be broadcast. 
If you live outside the UK you can also find out about programming on BBC World Service. 
The download is quick and simple and does not require any personal information from you. Once installed, an alert box will appear on your PC whenever an important story breaks - just like the one at the top of this page. The box will include a link to give you swift access to the BBC News website. 
---*-*-*---
Download noticeThe desktop alert software is provided to you by Skinkers Limited ("Skinkers") and not by the BBC. Any claim you have in respect of the software must be made against Skinkers and you agree not to involve the BBC in any dispute with Skinkers in connection with the software or otherwise. Your downloading, installation and use of the software is subject to additional terms in the form of the "Skinkers Licence Agreement" which will be presented to you during installation. 
---*-*-*---
Breaking news e-mail 
Breaking news alerts are also available via e-mail. 
To register for this service simply click on the link below. Then, whenever a big story breaks we will send a brief message to your e-mail inbox, including a link to the BBC News website. 
In addition to breaking news you can also sign up to a range of e-mail news services including the BBC Daily E-mail and newsletters from Newsnight and Panorama. 
Subscribe to the breaking news e-mail 
